mind your decisions i'm presh to walker
a queue with an edge length of three is
stacked with a cube with an edge length
of two and a cube with an edge length of
one as shown where two of their faces
are aligned imagine drawing a line
between opposite corners in this diagram
the question is what is the length of
the line contained inside the middle
cube this was suggested to me by email
and it came from the source D - quant
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
we will solve the problem using similar
triangles and separately solve it using
coordinate geometry let's get started
with similar triangles first we'll
consider this right triangle we'll
calculate the length of the shorter leg
as follows the shorter leg is the
diagonal of the square whose side length
is equal to 3 therefore the shorter leg
has a length equal to 3 times the square
root of 2 the longer leg will have a
length that consists of lengths of 3 2 &
so its entire length will be equal to 6
we want to calculate the portion of the
hypotenuse that's opposite this 2 in
order to do that we'll calculate the
entire hypotenuse length using the Gogu
theorem we substitute in the values and
then we calculate and simplify that the
hypotenuse has a length equal to 3 times
the square root of 6 now we have three
similar right triangles as such the
hypotenuse will be divided into a ratio
of 1 to 2 to 3 therefore 3 times the
square root of 6 will be equal to X plus
2x plus 3x which means it will be equal
to 6x consequently we divide both sides
by 3 to get that 2x is equal to the
square root of 6 and that's the answer
let's now solve the problem using
coordinate geometry
first we will set up a coordinate system
as follows since the bottom cube has an
edge length equal to three we can label
one corner as the point P with
coordinates three three and 0 the other
corner we will label with the point Q
and it will have a coordinate of zero
zero six we have first described the
vector PQ that goes from the point P to
the point Q by subtracting the relevant
points we get that PQ is equal to
negative three negative three and six we
can then describe a parametric equation
for the line going through PQ by adding
the point P plus T times the vector PQ
we then add coordinate by coordinate to
get the following equation we want to
figure out the portion that's contained
entirely inside the middle cube notice
the intersection of this line with the
plane Z is equal to three will give us
one endpoint of this line segment if Z
is equal to 3 that means 60 is equal to
3 consequently T is equal to 0.5 and the
point we're looking for will be equal to
one point five one point five and three
we then want to find the intersection of
this line with the plane Z is equal to
five
this means 60 is equal to 5 which means
T is equal to 5 over 6 we substitute
into the equation for the line and we
get the point 0.5 0.5 and 5 we now can
solve for the length of this line
segment by using the distance formula we
substitute in the coordinates and then
we simplify
it'll be equal to the square root of 1
squared plus 1 squared plus 2 squared
and this simplifies to be the square
root of 6 and once again we get the same
answer it's a pretty neat problem for
three-dimensional geometry thanks for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube
as always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]